---
title: Farewell to TTS
date: 2025-04-28
---

![](/assets/blog/2025-04-28/greg-message.png) {.center}

Dear TTS friends,

Today is the final day of the 18F RIF notice period, which I gather means I will
be separated at the end of the day. (Heaven forbid anything be communicated
clearly, amirite?) Anyway, with that assumption in mind, I wanted to take a
moment to say farewell.

This isn't how I planned to go. In fact, I didn't plan to go at all.

![Animated clip of Dr. Who saying, 'I don't want to go.'](/assets/blog/2025-04-28/dr-who.webp) {.center}

Back in 2019, when my first term was drawing to a close, I started putting
together a doc of what I'd say in my farewell email, if that came to pass, but
it didn't. I still have that doc, but a lot of what was in it isn't very
relevant anymore. But there are still some goodies!

My time at 18F, and by extension OCSIT and then TTS, has been the most rewarding
experience of my career – and ranks very highly in my life in general – across
so many dimensions. We have done incredible public service together and along
the way, we made friends with each other. We celebrated each other's
professional wins and personal wins; we supported each other through difficult
professional moments and personal ones. A lot of places claim that their
workplace is a family, but TTS really was that. Even the infighting was
familial, eventually. (Sorry, Solutions. We could have been better siblings in
the early days.) And just like family, nothing brought us closer together than
adversity thrust upon us.

What has made TTS special is not that we are uniquely skilled or that we are the
gold standard of technologists, but that we care very deeply about public
service and we practice it with kindness and compassion. We know which things
are important and which things we should be flexible with, and we're willing to
flex. In 2018 or so, after a few months of building the eAPD web app with the
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), we did our first user feedback
session. It was brutal. They hated it. But we knew that our attachment to what
we built wasn't important. Yeah, it stung, but we'd learned some valuable
information, and we knew that it was important to hold on loosely to our
assumptions of what users needed. I remember a day in the doldrums, and then
Laura Poncé rallied the team the next day by synthesizing the feedback to
distill exactly what it was users had disliked, and she pitched us on some
alternatives. We got to work, and within a couple of months, we had another
feedback session where our users were... not angry at us. A year later, one of
the original research participants sat on a panel at a conference alongside one
of our product owners evangelizing eAPD to everyone in attendance.

![Screenshot from a video meeting of CMS eAPD product owners being delightfully shocked](/assets/blog/2025-04-28/product-owners.png) {.center}

We also knew how to bring joy. Look at our eAPD product owners up there! TTS
understands that delivery is the strategy, and when our partners see that
delivery can happen at high quality and in short order, they love it. They see
us being serious at the times that call for it, and relaxed and goofy when
that's more appropriate. They lean into our culture because our culture works.

It has been a pleasure and an honor to serve alongside all but one of you. I
thank almost all of you for your dedication to improving the lives of the
American people. Regardless of what comes next, your service cannot be undone.
The lives you've touched were better in those moments. Nothing can change that.
I wish most of you the very best, however your paths unfold from here. Be kind,
value others' experiences, show compassion, and be silly.

Be like this giraffe.

![Animation of a cartoon giraffe strutting, its head bopping wildly back and forth.](/assets/blog/2025-04-28/giraffe-strut.gif){.bg-white} {.center}

I hope we can stay in touch. If you don't know how to reach me outside of GSA,
ping me at shy.king4809@fastmail.com and I'll pass along my real info!

Take care, my friends. The American people are better off because we have been
here. Never forget that.

![An image in the style of 1980s school yearbooks with a grid at the bottom, a star field at the top, and some kind of wild pink laser beam separating them. At the top is the text "Maximum GREG" in a Miami Vice-like font. Below is a picture of Greg screaming through a fracture in the grid.](/assets/blog/2025-04-28/maximum-greg.png) {.center}

--  
Greg Walker (he/him)
