---
---

# African American History Month, 2025

2025 got off to a really shitty start for respecting, appreciating, and
celebrating the incredible diversity of the American people, but while the US
government may have decided to pretend like we're monolothich, I was fortunate
enough to be in a workplace that cares. So, "official" observances were canceled
but in our work Slack, I posted these cool bits of African American history that
are meant to show that African American history is integral to every aspect of
American history – not just the big things, but the everyday parts too.

## February 3

Today is the first business day of African American History Month, and there is
no American history without African American history. (Well, no US history, at
least. There was an America before Europeans arrived, after all.) I think of
African American History Month as a time to recognize the way Black Americans
have been deeply integrated into the building and sustainment of our country
since literally the very beginning. I mean, yes, there are the significant
figures of history – Harriet Tubman; Frederick Douglass; W.E.B. DuBois; Rosa
Parks; Martin Luther King, Jr. – but there are also the everyday people, showing
up and building a country together.

African American history is US history, and we do our best work when we are
together. United we stand; divided we fall.

## February 4

The 1920s saw the Prohibition era, when liquor was outlawed. As any social
movement is, it was a complicated and long process, but one of the many
perspectives were African American temperance activists who were less concerned
about the souls of the drinkers and more concerned with the economic trap of
alcohol dependence. After all, they noted, Black people had only recently gained
their freedom from the plantation; why should they surrender it again to the
bottle? They revealed concerted efforts by unscrupulous White liquor producers
to get Black patrons drunk, either to enrich themselves or, often, to hold up
the drunk Black person as an example of Black “savagery.” Temperance, then, was
a means of protecting Black Americans from attempts to disparage them and to
help them on the journey to economic freedom.

While we recognize today that outright prohibition wasn’t the best solution, we
still see the exact same struggles playing out today with things like the opiod
epidemic, where an unscrupulous business profited off addiction, and those who
fell into addiction have become demonized. I am grateful today for the Black
voices of the past who showed us what predatory capitalism looks like and I hope
we learn their lessons.

Happy African American History Month!

## February 6

One of the great successes of the American experiment has been the amount of
_stuff_ you can buy. I mean, okay, that's obviously bad in a lot of ways, but
the enormous diversity of the consumer marketplace means that whoever you are,
you can probably find products that are designed and meant for you. This scale
of market wouldn't exist without the diversity of business owners, product
designers, and shopkeepers making and selling goods which, relative to the
entire market, might be niche. Take, for example, Madam C.J. Walker. In the
early 1900s, she built a business empire by manufacturing hair care products
for African American hair.

The Black market was a relatively small portion of total sales, so most hair
care makers just ignored Black customers' needs. Madam C.J. Walker's brothers
were barbers and taught her some tricks for keeping her scalp moist when she
experienced extreme dandruff and even hair loss. Drawn to hair care from that
point, she then took a job with another Black woman who sold a line of her own
products door-to-door. Taking the experiences from her brothers and combining
them what she learned about business, she launched her own brand, and within a
few years, she became America's first Black self-made millionaire.

The dream of a magnificent market that can serve the needs of everyone in
America is a pretty nice one, and we're only as close as we are because of the
contributions of Black business owners.

Happy African American History Month!

## February 10

Last week at 18F Team Coffee, we spent our time celebrating team wins. It’s
important to remind ourselves why we do this work, after all. And there was so
much pride on display. The civil service gives us a lot to be proud of, and
being the goober that I am, I was reminded of this scene from _Blazing Saddles_:

<video controls>
  <source src="/assets/video/civil-service.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

<small>transcript: Woo, look at that start! Ooo-ee, Civil service!</small>

African Americans have long been a staple of the civil service, often
compromising disproportionately large share of the workforce compared to the
general population. Black Americans have been delivering mail as long as there
has been American mail to deliver, first under slavery and then under the postal
system. Indeed, a great number of postmasters have been Black, going back to at
least 1867! But like all of us in the civil service, African American public
servants have long understood the enormous weight of the job, using their
positions to uphold the law and increase equity across the nation. Today I want
to specifically thank Blacks in Government (BIG) for its long tradition of
fostering and supporting Black participation throughout the civil service, which
has necessarily made us better and stronger.

Happy African American History Month!

## February 11

Reading about Madam C.J. Walker last week got me thinking, we don’t really talk
a lot about the African Americans who have shaped healthcare. Like Dr. Patricia
Bath, the first Black American to complete a medical residency in ophthalmology.
She then cofounded the American Institute for the Prevention of Blindness and
invented the first laser therapy for cataracts. Instead of manually grinding
cataracts out of eyes, doctors are now able to zap them with lasers, resulting
in higher success rates, lower rates of pain, and faster recovery.

Also Dr. Charles Drew, whose discovery of a method for preserving and
reconstituting blood plasma led to the creation of blood banks and has saved
countless lives. Rather than having to store “whole blood,” which is not only
bulky but also difficult (the cells tend to break down; whole blood is usually
stored refrigerated, which slows down the cellular process and allows it to be
stored for up to 3 weeks), dried plasma can safely be stored at room
temperature. Dried-plasma technology was abandoned in the United States after
WWII, but it is seeing renewed interest as the DOD recognizes the value for
field medics who may not have access to refrigeration.

And let’s not forget Dr. Jocelyn Elders, the first Black Surgeon General of the United States, a determined and outspoken proponent of sex education and contraception. When President Bill Clinton told aides to fire her for talking about condoms, she refused and demanded that he tell her to her face. Not only did she educate a generation of Americans about safer sex, but she forced the president of the United States to confront her directly rather than go quietly. (Learn more about Dr. Elders in [this wonderful episode of _Science Vs_](https://gimletmedia.com/shows/science-vs/n8h8225)).

All of this to say, healthcare the world over owes a lot to American physicians in general and African American physicians in particular. As ever, African American history is American history.

Happy African American History Month!

## February 12

The Super Bowl is over, y’all. And what’s a Super Bowl party without the
snacks?! Everyone loves the game day wings, some nice ranch dressing to dip them
in, and some chips on the side, right? Even outside of football, these are
staples of Americana.

Potato chips were invented by George Crum, a Black chef in New York in the early
1800s. Oh sure, the restaurant had fries, but people complained “oh they’re too
thick, oh they’re too starchy.” Crum, in faux-frustration, decided to slice his
“fries” super thin and fry them up, and potato chips were born. They were an
instant success and now they live forever in American pantries.

Ranch dressing was invented by a Black cowboy in Alaska in the 1940s named
Steven Hanson. Cowboys tended to cook for themselves, and Hanson had a dressing
recipe that he served alongside his meals. He kept working at it until he landed
on what we know as ranch today. It was so well-liked by the other cowpoke that
he started the Hidden Valley Ranch company, and one of America’s most-beloved
condiments was born.African American history is American history. There’s
nothing about American culture that is untouched by Black influence and
innovation, and we’re a better, happier, tastier place because of the
contributions of African Americans.

Happy African American History Month!

## February 13

Sometimes people like to sweep things under the rug, but that's just hiding the
dirt. The dirt's still there. But in 1897, African American inventor Lloyd P.
Ray filed a patent for a brand new device to provide an alternative to hiding
the dirt: a dust pan. No, I'm not kidding. Yes it really did take until nearly
the year 1900 for someone to have the idea of picking up the dirt. Anyway, Ray's
invention was an iron scoop box attached to a pole so you could sweep dirt into
the collection box without having to bend over, and the box was designed to be
big enough that you didn't have to empty it every few seconds. Basically,
exactly the dust pans we have today! No longer was it necessary to hide
unsightly truths: Ray gave us the power to actually clean it up and make it
better.

On the topic of helping create a healthy environment, Joseph H. Smith, another
Black inventor, patented the first lawn sprinkler in 1897 as well. A healthy and
vibrant lawn needs care, and Smith's invention helped lawns flourish. Instead of
leaving lawns to dry and die of neglect, the people in charge could turn a tap
and nourish the lawn with a healthy flow of rejuvenating water. While history
has given us reason to reconsider the lawn's place in a healthy ecosystem,
there's no doubt that Smith gave us all the chance to have healthy ones.

And you know what else is healthy? Well-preserved food. Until the 1940s, the
only way to move food over long distances without it spoiling was by loading the
container with a butt-load of ice and hoping for the best. But African American
Frederick McKinley Jones, a WWI veteran and engineer, developed truck-mounted
refrigeration units to help us get fresh fruits and veggies all across the
country. (He'd previously invented a device to automatically synchronize the
video and audio portions of a movie, which he sold to RCA. We can thank him for
movie night, too.) An apple a day may keep the doctor away, but only if it's
unspoiled. Thanks to McKinley, that's a realistic option!

Happy African American History Month!

## February 14

We work in tech here, and we love (love?) tech, right? We just love hopping on a
uick Meet or Zoom call to work on gnarly problems impacting the public
experience of government. Even if we were all in offices, there’d be no escaping
the need for telecommunication. And for this, we have to thank Dr. Marian Rogers
Croak. Dr. Croak, an African American engineer, spent decades at Bell Labs and
AT&T. Among the many things she did while managing a team of over 2,000 other
engineers and overseeing 500 projects, she essentially invented Voice-Over-IP,
the immediate precursor to modern video chat. We couldn’t Meet without Dr.
Croak! And as if that world-changing innovation wasn’t enough, she – along with
colleague Hossein Eslambolchi – invented the use of short SMS codes to donate
money to charities. Yeah, that’s right. If you love those “text 12345 to donate
$50 to my kidney transplant” messages, Dr. Croak gave us that too! Cynicism
aside, this technology raised over $40 million for relief efforts following the
2010 earthquake in Haiti. _She saved lives_.

You know what else we love? Wanting to go somewhere and knowing how to get there
without unfolding a 20-foot-wide Rand McNally paper map. GPS has profoundly
changed how we move about our world. Enter Gladys West, an African American
mathematician and computer programmer. Starting in the 1950s, she worked at the
US Navy as a computer programmer, but she wasn’t content to just program the
computers. In the 1960s, she proved that Pluto’s motion was regular relative to
Neptune, which is pretty cool, but she then parlayed the techniques she used
into studying the shape of the Earth itself. Using data from NASA’s young
satellite program, she was able to program a computer to calculate a much more
precise mathematical model of the shape of the Earth, taking into account tidal,
gravitational, and other cosmic forces. The geoid she developed was crucial to
accurately identifying points on the surface of the Earth and literally made GPS
possible. So the next time you’re going across town and you’re not sure how to
get there, thank Gladys West for getting you directions!

We’d be living in a wildly different world without the contributions of just
these two Black Americans. They’ve made our lives better and easier by advancing
our scientific understanding of the universe and applying that knowledge in
practical and useful ways. African American history is American history!

Happy African American History Month!
